README.md, before:

# qr_auto_fill_form

[![pub package](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/qr_auto_fill_form.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/qr_auto_fill_form)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/aboubakar6677/qr_auto_fill_form?style=social)](https://github.com/aboubakar6677/qr_auto_fill_form)

---

## ✨ Overview

`qr_auto_fill_form` is a customizable Flutter package that lets users scan QR codes and automatically populate form fields with the decoded data. Ideal for forms in onboarding, vehicle rental, check-ins, ID entry, or automated data collection workflows.

---

## 🚀 Features

- ✅ Full-screen, professional QR scanner screen  
- ✅ Auto-fills text fields based on scanned QR JSON data  
- ✅ Supports clearing fields before scan  
- ✅ Optional confirmation dialog before applying scanned data  
- ✅ Easy integration into existing forms  
- ✅ Supports field-level transformations and validation hooks  
- ✅ Works out-of-the-box with `TextEditingController`s  

---

## 📦 Installation

Add the following to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  qr_auto_fill_form: ^1.0.0
```


## 🛠️ Usage

## 1. Register your form fields

```
final qrFormController = QRFormAutoFillController();

@override
void initState() {
  super.initState();

  qrFormController.registerField('name', nameController);
  qrFormController.registerField('email', emailController);
  qrFormController.registerField('numbers', numberController);
  qrFormController.registerField('profession', professionController);
}
```

## 2. Trigger QR scan and auto-fill

```
ElevatedButton(
  onPressed: () {
    launchQRFormScanner(
      context: context,
      controller: qrFormController,
      onBeforeScan: () {
        nameController.clear();
        emailController.clear();
        licenseController.clear();
        carController.clear();
      },
      showConfirmation: true,
      confirmTitle: 'Auto-Fill Form',
      confirmContent: 'Do you want to use this scanned data?',
    );
  },
  child: const Text('Scan & Fill'),
);
```

## 🔄 Example QR JSON

{
  "name": "ABC",
  "email": "ab.dev.pk@gmail.com",
  "numbers": 123,
  "profession": "Development"
}

## 🔄 Example keyValue

name=ABC;email=ab.dev.pk@gmail.com;numbers=123;profession=Development


## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Copyright © 2024 Abou Bakar

Commit message:

added code for generate json and keyvalue

README.md, after:

# qr_auto_fill_form

[![pub package](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/qr_auto_fill_form.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/qr_auto_fill_form)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/aboubakar6677/qr_auto_fill_form?style=social)](https://github.com/aboubakar6677/qr_auto_fill_form)

---

## ✨ Overview

`qr_auto_fill_form` is a customizable Flutter package that lets users scan QR codes and automatically populate form fields with the decoded data. Ideal for forms in onboarding, vehicle rental, check-ins, ID entry, or automated data collection workflows.

---

## 🚀 Features

- ✅ Full-screen, professional QR scanner screen  
- ✅ Auto-fills text fields based on scanned QR JSON data  
- ✅ Generate QR code from current form data (as JSON or key-value)
- ✅ Copy or display QR data for reuse or sharing
- ✅ Supports clearing fields before scan  
- ✅ Optional confirmation dialog before applying scanned data  
- ✅ Easy integration into existing forms  
- ✅ Supports field-level transformations and validation hooks  
- ✅ Works out-of-the-box with `TextEditingController`s  

---

## 📦 Installation

Add the following to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  qr_auto_fill_form: ^1.1.0
```


## 🛠️ Usage

## 1. Register your form fields

```
final qrFormController = QRFormAutoFillController();

@override
void initState() {
  super.initState();

  qrFormController.registerField('name', nameController);
  qrFormController.registerField('email', emailController);
  qrFormController.registerField('numbers', numberController);
  qrFormController.registerField('profession', professionController);
}
```

## 2. Trigger QR scan and auto-fill

```
ElevatedButton(
  onPressed: () {
    launchQRFormScanner(
      context: context,
      controller: qrFormController,
      onBeforeScan: () {
        nameController.clear();
        emailController.clear();
        licenseController.clear();
        carController.clear();
      },
      showConfirmation: true,
      confirmTitle: 'Auto-Fill Form',
      confirmContent: 'Do you want to use this scanned data?',
    );
  },
  child: const Text('Scan & Fill'),
);
```
## 3. Generate QR from Form Data
You can also generate a QR string (JSON or key-value) from currently entered form data:

```
final data = qrFormController.generateQRData(
  format: QRDataFormat.json, // or QRDataFormat.keyValue
);
```
## 📋 Pro Tip:

Even if you don’t want to use a visual QR code, you can still show the formatted string and let users:

Copy it
Share it via apps like WhatsApp/Email
Store it in a database

## 🔄 Example QR JSON

{
  "name": "ABC",
  "email": "ab.dev.pk@gmail.com",
  "numbers": 123,
  "profession": "Development"
}

## 🔄 Example keyValue

name=ABC;email=ab.dev.pk@gmail.com;numbers=123;profession=Development


## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Copyright © 2024 Abou Bakar
